CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to Contribute
Thanks for your interest in contributing to this project! It is still in its beginning stages and so the process for collaboration will develop over time. All elements of the project are in need of collaboration, from documentation, to identifying and gathering appropriate datasets, data wrangling and exploration, to model development. If you're interested in helping out, there's probably a place for you!

The project is currently being developed using Jupyter Notebooks. Coding in Python or R is preferred.

## First Steps
1. Check out the [README](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/blob/master/README.md) for an overview of the project
2. Familiarize yourself with the definitions of homelessness and the structure of the [primary dataset](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/blob/master/datasets/homeless-final.csv)
3. Review [other datasets](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/tree/master/datasets) gathered for the project
4. Check out the [Issues](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/issues) for existing projects that you might be interested in

## Get in Touch
Because this project is still in the beginning stages, it is important that all collaborators are working towards the same goals in a coordinated fashion. If you are interested in collaborating, please email rebeccaebarnes@gmail.com to introduce yourself and chat about your areas of interest for the project.

## Commit Message Structure
This commit message structure is borrowed from the [Udacity Git Commit Message Style Guide](https://udacity.github.io/git-styleguide/) with a couple of additions based on the data science nature of the project.

### Types
- feat: a new feature - code functionality outside of the data analysis process; includes models and reports
- fix: a bug fix - code and data fixes
- docs: changes to documentation
- style: formatting, missing semi colons, etc; no functional code change
- refactor: refactoring code functionality
- test: conducting tests, refactoring tests
- chore: file restructures, other housekeeping tasks; no functional code change
- gather: add new data resources - separate commits for relevant code and data
- wrangle: cleaning and other restructuring of data - separate commits for relevant code and data
- eda: Exploratory data visualization

Commit message:

docs: Add Suggested Workflow for contributing

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to Contribute
Thanks for your interest in contributing to this project! It is still in its beginning stages and so the process for collaboration will develop over time. All elements of the project are in need of collaboration, from documentation, to identifying and gathering appropriate datasets, data wrangling and exploration, to model development. If you're interested in helping out, there's probably a place for you!

The project is currently being developed using Jupyter Notebooks. Coding in Python or R is preferred.

## First Steps
1. Check out the [README](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/blob/master/README.md) for an overview of the project
2. Familiarize yourself with the definitions of homelessness and the structure of the [primary dataset](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/blob/master/datasets/homeless-final.csv)
3. Review [other datasets](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/tree/master/datasets) gathered for the project
4. Check out the [Issues](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/issues) for existing projects that you might be interested in

## Get in Touch
Because this project is still in the beginning stages, it is important that all collaborators are working towards the same goals in a coordinated fashion. If you are interested in collaborating, please email rebeccaebarnes@gmail.com to introduce yourself and chat about your areas of interest for the project.

## Suggested Workflow
1. Fork this project.
2. Create a branch for your changes.
3. Make your changes on the branch (See Commit Message Structure below).
4. Send a [pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/).

## Commit Message Structure
This commit message structure is borrowed from the [Udacity Git Commit Message Style Guide](https://udacity.github.io/git-styleguide/) with a couple of additions based on the data science nature of the project.

### Types
- feat: a new feature - code functionality outside of the data analysis process; includes models and reports
- fix: a bug fix - code and data fixes
- docs: changes to documentation
- style: formatting, missing semi colons, etc; no functional code change
- refactor: refactoring code functionality
- test: conducting tests, refactoring tests
- chore: file restructures, other housekeeping tasks; no functional code change
- gather: add new data resources - separate commits for relevant code and data
- wrangle: cleaning and other restructuring of data - separate commits for relevant code and data
- eda: Exploratory data visualization
