README.md, before:

# Homelessness in America
## Background
Homelessness is an issue that continues to burden our communities across the globe. While typical discussion around the causes of homelessness can focus on the personal/individual level, it is known that many structural/macro level factors contribute to homelessness.

This goal of this project is to examine macro level factors that a related to homelessness using US data.

## How to Collaborate
If you are interested in collaborating on this project, please read the COLLABORATE document.

## Resources
The following original sources were accessed to create datasets for analysis. These are located in the resources folder.

### [PIT and HIC Data Since 2007](https://www.hudexchange.info/resource/3031/pit-and-hic-data-since-2007/)

- 2007 - 2017 PIT Counts by State
- 2007 - 2017 HIC Data by State

(_PIT_: Point in Time, _HIC_: Housing Inventory Count)

Each of these resources is reported by [Continuums of Care](https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/coc/)'s to the US Housing and Urban Development (HUD) department.

### [HUD Awards and Allocations](https://www.hudexchange.info/grantees/allocations-awards/)

- 2003 to 2018 awards of various funding programs by state

### Population Data
- [State Population Totals and Components of Change](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2017/demo/popest/state-total.html) (2010 - 2017)
- [Population and Housing Unit Estimates](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/popest/technical-documentation/research/evaluation-estimates.html) (2000 to 2010)

### [Unemployment Rates for States](http://www.dlt.ri.gov/lmi/laus/us/annavg.htm)
- Annual Average Rankings 2010 to present

## Datasets
To assist in analysis, the original data sources have been split into different cleaned datasets. These are located in the datasets folder.

Information on data cleaning and validation can be found in the homelessness-working notebook.

### Homelessness
Due to the structure of the original dataset, the data has been split into a number of smaller datasets.
- **homelessness-final:** Full dataset of original categorizations
- **homelessness-type:** Separates data according to homelessness type (chronic and non-chronic)
- **homelessness-shelter:** Separates data according to sheltered and unsheltered
- **homelessness-family:** Separates data according to family groupings - individuals and people in families
- **homelessness-age:** Separates data according to youth categories
- **homelessness-veteran:** Separates data according to veteran status or not
- **per-capita:** Total homelessness per state per year per state population

### Population
- **population:** State population from 2010

### Unemployment
- **unemployment:** Average annual unemployment data by state from 2007 to 2017

#### Using these datasets
All datasets listed are consider to be clean versions of the data resources and ready for EDA.

Especially when using the **homelessness** datasets it is important to understand that the categorizations found within the data are not mutually exclusive, and are therefore not additive. It is important that the data structure is understood before analysis is conducted. Information on how the data is constructed can be found in the [Data Configuration](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/blob/master/resources/data/Data%20Configuration.docx) doc.

Commit message:

docs: Add tableau dataset info to README

README.md, after:

# Homelessness in America
## Background
Homelessness is an issue that continues to burden our communities across the globe. While typical discussion around the causes of homelessness can focus on the personal/individual level, it is known that many structural/macro level factors contribute to homelessness.

This goal of this project is to examine macro level factors that a related to homelessness using US data.

## How to Collaborate
If you are interested in collaborating on this project, please read the COLLABORATE document.

## Resources
The following original sources were accessed to create datasets for analysis. These are located in the resources folder.

### [PIT and HIC Data Since 2007](https://www.hudexchange.info/resource/3031/pit-and-hic-data-since-2007/)

- 2007 - 2017 PIT Counts by State
- 2007 - 2017 HIC Data by State

(_PIT_: Point in Time, _HIC_: Housing Inventory Count)

Each of these resources is reported by [Continuums of Care](https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/coc/)'s to the US Housing and Urban Development (HUD) department.

### [HUD Awards and Allocations](https://www.hudexchange.info/grantees/allocations-awards/)

- 2003 to 2018 awards of various funding programs by state

### Population Data
- [State Population Totals and Components of Change](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2017/demo/popest/state-total.html) (2010 - 2017)
- [Population and Housing Unit Estimates](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/popest/technical-documentation/research/evaluation-estimates.html) (2000 to 2010)

### [Unemployment Rates for States](http://www.dlt.ri.gov/lmi/laus/us/annavg.htm)
- Annual Average Rankings 2010 to present

## Datasets
To assist in analysis, the original data sources have been split into different cleaned datasets. These are located in the datasets folder.

Information on data cleaning and validation can be found in the homelessness-working notebook.

### Homelessness
Due to the structure of the original dataset, the data has been split into a number of smaller datasets.
- **homelessness-final:** Full dataset of original categorizations
- **homelessness-type:** Separates data according to homelessness type (chronic and non-chronic)
- **homelessness-shelter:** Separates data according to sheltered and unsheltered
- **homelessness-family:** Separates data according to family groupings - individuals and people in families
- **homelessness-age:** Separates data according to youth categories
- **homelessness-veteran:** Separates data according to veteran status or not
- **per-capita:** Total homelessness per state per year per state population

### Population
- **population:** State population from 2010

### Unemployment
- **unemployment:** Average annual unemployment data by state from 2007 to 2017

### Tableau datasets
These datasets were specifically put together for use in a Tableau project.
- **tableau-data:** Combined subset of homelessness, population, and rental price information
- **family-rent-prices:** Rental price information from Apartment List using 2, 3, and 4 bedroom rental prices as a proxy for family rental costs
- **single-rent-prices:** Rental price information from Apartment List using studio and 1 bedroom rental prices as a proxy for single person rental costs
- **intervention-impact:** Numerical data from the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness [federal plan to prevent and end homelessness](https://www.usich.gov/resources/uploads/asset_library/USICH_OpeningDoors_Amendment2015_FINAL.pdf) on service use costs

#### Using these datasets
All datasets listed are consider to be clean versions of the data resources and ready for EDA.

Especially when using the **homelessness** datasets it is important to understand that the categorizations found within the data are not mutually exclusive, and are therefore not additive. It is important that the data structure is understood before analysis is conducted. Information on how the data is constructed can be found in the [Data Configuration](https://github.com/rebeccaebarnes/Homelessness/blob/master/resources/data/Data%20Configuration.docx) doc.
